What's inheritance?
That was the really hot thing in the 60s, 70s, and 80s.
It's also very cool in the 90s,
when Java came along.
Its the basic idea that you build on top of something else.
So, I believe the first example of the user inheritance was in
some modelling of emergency services in Oslo.
You want to read or write a simulation
that allows you to estimate where you put your emergency services.
Here is a fire station,
here's a police station, things like that.
For that, you have to built a model of the CT with streets,
and you have to have things moving on them.
You have vehicles moving on them.
Before inheritance, the way people were writing their code is,
here comes a bicycle, it turns right.
Here comes a car, it turns right.
You can't actually organize things like that.
What you actually want to say is here comes a vehicle,
and it turns right the way it wants to turn right.
Car turns right in one way,
a fire engine turns right another way,
police car may go through for red, and things like that.
So, the idea is that you build hierarchy of concepts,
starting from the most general and then more and more specialized.
So, a fire engine is a kind of a truck,
that's a kind of a car,
that's a kind of a vehicle.
We can argue about whether a truck is a car,
but that depends on the design.
So you build up these hierarchies,
and the typical thing is in graphics.
You have a smiley face which is a circle,
which is a general shape,
and you built up like that.
This is one way of organizing your data,
and it's somewhat less popular now than it used to be.
Because it turns out that a lot of our ideas aren't all that hierarchical.
There are some great examples,
and I think I just mentioned two of them,
but people were using it.
They thought everything should be a class hierarchy.
Most things aren't as hierarchical as they might think they were.
A book has missed a lot of chapters,
it gets a little bit more complicated.